# PODNAME: File::Collector

=head1 OVERVIEW

C<File::Collector> and its companion module C<File::Collector::Processor> are
base classes designed to make it easier to create custom modules for classifying
and processing a collection of files as well as generating and processing data
related to files in the collection.

For example, let's say you need to import raw files from one directory into some
kind of repository. Let's say that files in the directory need to be filtered
and the content of the files needs to be parsed, validated, rendered and/or
changed before getting imported. Complicating things further, let's say that the
name and location of the file in the target repository is dependent upon the
content of the files in some way. Oh, and you also have to check to make sure
the file hasn't already been imported.

This kind of task can be acomplished with a series of one-off scripts that
process and import your files with each script producing output suitable for the
next script. But if such imports involve a high level of complexity, running
separate scripts for each processing stage can be slow, tedious, error-prone and
a headache to maintain and organize.

The C<File::Collector> and C<File::Collector::Processor> base modules can help
you set up a chain of modules to combine a series of workflows into a single
logical package that will make complicated file processing more robust,
testable, and much simpler to code.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

There are three steps to using C<File::Collector>. First, you create your
C<Collector> classes, one for each stage of your file processing. Next, you
create C<Processor> classes, one for each of your C<Collector> classes. Finally,
you write a simple script to actually do the processing.

B<Step 1: Create the C<Collector> classes>

  package File::Collector::YourCollector;
  use strict; use warnings;

  # Here we add in the package containing the processing methods associated
  # with the Collector (see below).
  use File::Collector::YourCollector::Processor;

  # Objects can store information about the files in the collection which
  # can be accessed by other Collector and Processor classes.
  use SomeObject;

  # Add categories for file collections with the _init_processors method. These
  # categories are used as labels for Processor objects which contain
  # information about the files and can run methods on them. In the example
  # below, we add two file collection categories, "good" and "bad."
  sub _init_processors {
    return qw ( good bad );
  }

  # Next we add a _classify_file method that is called once for each file
  # added when constructing our Collector object. The primary job of this
  # method is to add files and any associated objects to a Processor for
  # further processing.
  sub _classify_file {
    my $s = shift;

    # First, we create an object and associate it with our file using the
    # _add_obj method. There is no requirement that you create objects but they
    # will make data about your file easily available to other classes.
    # Offloading as much logic as possible to objects will keep classes simple.

    # Note how we pass the name of the current file being processed to the
    # object by using the "selected" method which intelligently generates the
    # full path to the file currently being processed by _classify_file. Also
    # note that we don't have to bother passing the name of the file to
    # _add_obj method since this method can figure out which file is beting
    # processed by calling the "selected" method as well.
    my $data = SomeObject->new( $s->selected );
    $s->_add_obj('data', $data);

    # Now that we know something about our file, we can classify the files
    # according to any criteria of our choosing.
    # to a processor category
    if ( $data->{has_good_property} ) {
      $s->_classify('good');
    } else {
      $s->_classify('bad');
    }
  }

  # Finally, the _run_processes method contains method calls to your
  # Processor methods.
  sub _run_processes {
    my $s = shift;

    # Below are the methods we can run on the files in our collection. The
    # "good_files" method returns the collection of files classified as "good"
    # and the "do" method is a method that automatically iterates over the
    # files. The "modify" method is one of the methods in our Processor class
    # (see below).
    $s->good_files->do->modify;

    # Run methods on files classified as "bad"
    $s->bad_files->do->fix;
    $s->bad_files->do->modify;

    # You can call methods found in any of the earlier Processor classes you
    # run in your chain.
    $s->good_files->do->move;
    $s->bad_files->do->move;
  }

B<Step 2: Create your C<Processor> classes.>

  # Your Processor class must have the same package name as the Collector
  # class but with "::Processor" tacked on to the end.
  package File::Collector::YourCollector::Processor;

  # This line is required to get access to the methods from the base class.
  use parent 'File::Collector::Processor';

  # This custom method is run once for each file in a collection when we use
  # the "do" method.
  sub modify {
    my $s = shift;

    # Skip the file if it has already been processed.
    next if ($s->attr_defined ( 'data', 'processed' ));

    # Properties of objects added by Collector classes can be easily accessed.
    my @values = $s->get_obj_prop ( 'data', 'header_values' );

    # You can call methods found insided objects, too. Here we run the
    # add_header() method on the data object and pass on values to it.
    $s->obj_meth ( 'data', 'add_header', \@values );
  }

  # We can add as many additional custom methods as we need.
  sub fix {
    ...
  }

B<Step 3: Construction the Collector>

Once your classes have been created, you can run all of your collectors and
processors simply by constructing a C<Collector> object.

The constructor takes three types of arguments: a list of the files and/or
directories you want to collect; an array of the names of the C<Collector>
classes you wish to use in the order you wish to employ them; and finally, an
option hash, which is optional.

   my $collector = File::Collector::YourClassifier->new(
     # The first arguments are a list of resources to be added
     'my/dir', 'a_file.txt'

     # The second argument is an array of Collector class names listed in the
     # same order you want them to run
     [ 'File::Collector::First', 'File::Collector::YourCollector'],

     # Finally, an optional hash argument for options can be supplied
     { recurse => 0 });

   # The C<$collector> object has some useful methods:
   $collector->get_count; # returns total number of files in the collection

   # Convenience methods with a little under-the-hood magic make it painless to
   # iterate over files and run methods on them.
   while ($collector->next_good_file) {
     $collector->print_short_name;
   }

   # Iterators can be easily created from C<Processor> objects:
   my $iterator = $s->get_good_files;
   while ( $iterator->next ) {
     # run C<Processor> methods and do other stuff to "good" files
     $iterator->modify_file;
   }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=regmethod new( $dir, $file, ..., [ @custom_collector_classes ], \%opts )

=regmethod new( $dir, $file, ..., [ @custom_collector_classes ] )

=regmethod new( $dir, $file, ..., )

  my $collector = File::Collector->new( 'my/directory',
                                        [ 'Custom::Classifier' ]
				        { recurse => 0 } );

Creates a C<Collector> object to collect files from the directories and files
in the argument list. Once collected, the files will be processed by each of
the C<@custom_collector_classes> in the order supplied by an array argument. An
option hash can be supplied to turn directory recursion off with by setting
C<recurse> to false.

C<new> returns an object which contains all the files, their processing classes,
and any data you have associated with the files. This object has serveral
methods that can be used to inspect the object.

=regmethod add_resources( $dir, $file, ... )

  $collector->add_resources( 'myfile1.txt', '/my/home/dir/files/', ... );

Adds additional file resources to an existing collection and processes them.
This method accepts no option hash and the same one supplied to the new
constructor is used.

=regmethod get_count()

  $collector->get_count;

Returns the total number of files in the collection.

=regmethod get_files()

  my @all_files = $collector->get_files;

Returns a list of the full path of each file in the collection.

=regmethod get_file( $file_path )

  my $file = $collector->get_file( '/full/path/to/file.txt' );

Returns a reference of the data and objects associated with a file.

=regmethod list_files_long()

Prints the full path names of each file in the collection, sorted
alphabetically, to STDOUT.

=regmethod list_files()

Same as C<list_files_long> but prints the files' paths relative to the top level
directory shared by all the files in the collections.

=regmethod next_FILE_CATEGORY_file()

  while ($collector->next_good_file) {
    my $file = $collector->selected;
    ...
  }

Retrieves the first file from the the collection of files indicated by
C<FILE_CATEGORY>. Each subsequent C<next> call iterates over the list of files. Returns
a boolean false when the file is exhausted. Provides an easy way to iterate
over files and perform operations on them.

C<FILE_CATEGORY> must be a valid processor name as supplied by one of the
C<_init_processors> method.

=regmethod FILE_CATEGORY_files()

  my $processor = $collector->good_files;

Returns the C<File::Processor> object for the category indicated by C<FILE_CATEGROY>.

=regmethod get_FILE_CATEGORY_files()

Similar to C<FILE_CATEGORY_files()> except a shallow clone of the C<File::Processor> object is returned. Useful if you require separate iterators for files in the same category.

C<FILE_CATEGORY> must be a valid processor name as supplied by one of the
C<_init_processors> method.

=primethod _init_processors()

  sub _init_processors {
    return qw ( 'category_1', 'category_2' );
  }

Creates new file categories. Internally, this method adds a new Processor
object to the C<Collector> for each category added so that C<Processor> methods
from custom C<Processor> classes can be run on individual categories of files.

=primethod _classify_file()

  sub _classify_file {
    my $s = shift;

    # File classifying and analysis logic goes here
  }

Use this method to classify files and to associate objects with your files
using the methods provided by the C<Collector> class. This method is run once
for each file in the collection.

=primethod _run_processes()

  sub _run_processes {
    my $s = shift;

    # Processor method calls go here
  }

In this method, you should place various calls to C<Processor>s methods.

=primethod _classify( $category_name )

This method is typically called from within the C<_classify_file> method. It
adds the file currently getting pocessed to a collection of C<$category_name>
files contained within a C<Processor> object which, in turn, belongs to the
C<Collector> object.  The C<$category_name> must match one of the processor
names provided by the C<_init_processor> methods.

=primethod _add_obj( $object_name, $object )

Like the C<_classify> method, this method is typically called from within the
C<_classify_file> method. It associates the object specified by C<$object> to an
arbitrary name, specified by C<$object_name>, with the file currently getting
processed.

=regmethod isa_FILE_CATEGORY_file()

Returns a boolean value reflecting whether the file being iterated over belongs
to a category.

=itmethod get_obj_prop( $obj_name, $property_name )

Returns the contents of an object's property.

=itmethod get_obj( $obj_name )

Returns an object associated with a file.

=itmethod set_obj_prop( $obj_name, $property_name, $value )

Sets an object's property.

=itmethod obj_meth( $obj_name, $method_name, $method_args );

Runs the C<$method_name> method on the object specified in C<$obj_name>.
Arguments are passed via C<$method_args>.

=itmethod get_filename()

Retrieves the name of file being processed without the path.

=itmethod selected()

Returns the full path and file name of the file being processed.

=itmethod has_obj( $obj_name );

Returns a boolean value reflecting the existence of the obj in C<$obj_name>.

=itmethod attr_defined( $obj_name, $attr_name )

Returns a boolean value reflecting if the atrribute specified by C<$attr_name> is defined in the C<$obj_name> object.

=itmethod print_short_name()

Returns a shortened path, relative to all the files in the entire collection,
and the file name of the file being processed.

=head1 CONFIGURATION AND ENVIRONMENT

Requires no configuration files or environment variables.

=head1 DEPENDENCIES


=head1 SEE ALSO
